## Welcome to HYPERDRIVE 

**[Avisha Dhisle](https://www.linkedin.com/in/avisha-dhisle/)** (adhisle) and **[Prerit Rodney](https://www.linkedin.com/in/preritrodney/)** (prodney)

<!-- <style>a.nav { color: #585858; border-radius: 5px; background: #E6E6E6; padding: .2em .7em; text-decoration: none; margin: .5em .5em; display:inline-block; }a.nav:hover { background: #D8D8D8; color: black;}a.nav.selected { background: #D8D8D8; font-weight: bold; }small{color: #5e5e5e; display:block;text-align:center;margin-bottom: 1em;}</style>
<div style="text-align: center;"><a class="nav" href="https://millenniumfalcon418.github.io/hyperdrive/finalreport" target="_blank">Final Report</a> <a class="nav" href="https://millenniumfalcon418.github.io/hyperdrive/proposal" target="_blank">Proposal</a> <a class="nav"  href="https://millenniumfalcon418.github.io/hyperdrive/checkpoint" target="_blank">Checkpoint Report</a></div> -->

## OVERVIEW
Fast, high-performance object tracking is an important vision problem today. It is an important part of many applications today like, autonomous vehicles, video surveillance captured by drones, cameras, video processing and analyisis amongst many others. Tracking helps in localizing the object in every frame in higher level applications. It has piqued a lot of interest due to the need of automated video analysis of videos generated by high quality and inexpensive cameras. With the advent of extremely high performance computers, the need for fast object tracking algorithms is increasing since the compute power is seemingly available.

## THE CHALLENGE
Today, due to the emergence of cameras with much higher capture rates, 240 FPS, the need to have special algorithms has arisen. Many of the existing algorithms are aimed at the established frame rate of 30 FPS and have been observed to perform at a suboptimal level when used against a video of higher frame rates. Therefore, for real time tracking of objects in surveillance captured at such high frame rates, it is imperative that we have a fast object tracker. Another application of the fast tracker is for processing of 30 FPS videos at a much higher rate, like say 2000 FPS. This would help in alleviating the time that is taken to go through hours and hours of video footage.
One of the challenges of this project is the selection of the algorithms. There are primarily two mthods that can be implemented- Correlation Filter (CF) based methods and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based methods. While CF-based algorithms are efficient and are also capable of operating at hundreds of frames per second on embedded devices, the CNN-based algorithms are robust and reliable. Inspite of the high tolerance, CNNs are computationally very intensive as compared to the simpler CF methods.
Therefore, it is necessary that the algorithm chosen should not only be able to track at a high frame rate with accuracy and overcome problems such as occlusion, scale variation, illumination variation and object deformation, but also be super fast to be able to process images at supersonic speed!

## DELIVERABLES
### OUR ASPIRATIONS
The aim of our project is to build a CUDA library for a fast object tracker that can be run on a high-end GPU to obtain a high processing rate of videos. The high performance code will use a MOSSE correlation filter-based algorithm, as it is known to run at an impressive speed of ~700 FPS.

### DEMO
For the demo, the main focus will be on succesfully implementing the MOSSE filter in CUDA to run on the GPU for achieving object tracking at a frame rate that is atleast nominally higher than 700 FPS.

## RESOURCES
GHC machines with NVIDIA Geforce GTX 1080

## REFERENCES
1. Hamed Kiani Galoogahi1, Ashton Fagg, Chen Huang, Deva Ramanan and Simon Lucey, "Need for Speed: A Benchmark for Higher Frame Rate Object Tracking"
2. David S. Bolme, J. Ross Beveridge, Bruce A. Draper, Yui Man Lui, "Visual Object Tracking using Adaptive Correlation Filters"
3. João F. Henriques, Rui Caseiro, Pedro Martins, and Jorge Batista, "High-Speed Tracking with Kernelized Correlation Filters"
4. Alper Yilmaz, Omar Javed, Mubarak Shah, "Object Tracking: A Survey"
5. Moving Object Detection Approaches, Challenges and Object Tracking

